Mta 5505 (#4344)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/key-manager/api-cli/encrypt-decrypt-data-with-km-dek.mdx

        if err != nil {
            log.Fatal(err)
        }

        fmt.Printf("Plaintext: %s\n", plaintext)
        fmt.Printf("Ciphertext (base64): %s\n", ciphertext)

        decryptedCiphertext, err := primitive.Decrypt(ciphertext, associatedData)
        if err != nil {
            log.Fatal(err)
        }

        fmt.Printf("Decrypted ciphertext: %s\n", decryptedCiphertext)
    }
    ```
4. Replace `<region>` with the region where your key is located and save your changes.
5. Run your code:
    ```bash
    go run test.go
    ```

## Manually encrypt and decrypt data with a Key Manager DEK

### OpenSSL overview

OpenSSL is a software library for secure communication over computer networks. It is widely used for cryptographic functions.

To decrypt or encrypt your data using OpenSSL, you need to send your encrypted DEK to Key Manager using the [Decrypt data operation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/key-manager/#path-keys-decrypt-data).

Scaleway Key Manager then uses your key encryption key (KEK) to decrypt the encrypted DEK, returning it to its plaintext (unencrypted) form, which you can then use to decrypt your actual data.

<Message type="important">

>  - **We do not recommend that you use OpenSSL in a production environment**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **We do not recommend using OpenSSL in a production environment**.
```

 - You should **never save the plaintext DEK on disk or any permanent storage, as it poses a security risk**.
</Message>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```bash
    # Decrypt the encrypted DEK using scw key decrypt
    decrypted_data_key=$(scw keymanager key decrypt key-id=<kek_id> ciphertext=<my_encrypted_data_key> | awk '$1 == "Plaintext" {print $2}' | base64 -d)

    # Decrypt your data using OpenSSL and AES-256-CBC
    openssl enc -aes-256-cbc -d -in encrypted.bin -out decrypted.bin -K $(echo -n "$decrypted_data_key" | hexdump -ve '/1 "%02x"') -iv 0 -nosalt -p
```

<Message type="tip">
 If you do not wish to use OpenSSL to encrypt and decrypt your data encryption key, you can do it manually using the procedure below, which follows best practices.
</Message>

### Encrypting a DEK manually

1. [Create one data encryption key](/key-manager/how-to/create-manage-dek/) **for each plaintext you want to encrypt**.

        <Message type="tip">
         This ensures that each encryption operation uses a unique encryption key, enhancing security.
        </Message>

2. Use your newly created DEK to encrypt the desired plaintext securely.

        <Message type="note">

>          We recommend using **standard and well-established ciphers** such as `AES` (Advanced Encryption Standard), to perform the encryption operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         We recommend using **standard and well-established ciphers**, such as `AES` (Advanced Encryption Standard), to perform the encryption operation.
```

tags: key-manager encryption decryption kms dek data-encryption-key go
dates:
  validation: 2025-02-03
  posted: 2025-02-03
---

This page shows you how to encrypt and decrypt data using your Key Manager [data encryption key](/key-manager/concepts/#data-encryption-key-dek) and [Tink](https://github.com/tink-crypto/tink/tree/master).

<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- Created a key encryption key either from the [Scaleway console](/key-manager/how-to/create-km-key/) or the [Key Manager API](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/key-manager/#path-keys-create-a-key)
- Retrieved your key encryption key's ID
- A valid [API key](/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/)
- Downloaded and configured the [Scaleway CLI](https://github.com/scaleway/scaleway-cli?tab=readme-ov-file#getting-started)
- Dowloaded and installed [Go](https://go.dev/doc/install)
- [Created a Key Manager data encryption key](/key-manager/how-to/create-manage-dek/)

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        }

        kekAEAD, err := client.GetAEAD(keyURI)
        if err != nil {
            log.Fatal(err)
        }

        // Get the Key Manager envelope AEAD primitive.
        dekTemplate := aead.AES256GCMKeyTemplate()
        primitive := aead.NewKMSEnvelopeAEAD2(dekTemplate, kekAEAD)
        if err != nil {
            log.Fatal(err)
        }

        // Use the primitive.
        plaintext := []byte("message")
        associatedData := []byte("example KMS envelope AEAD encryption")

        ciphertext, err := primitive.Encrypt(plaintext, associatedData)
        if err != nil {
            log.Fatal(err)
        }

        fmt.Printf("Plaintext: %s\n", plaintext)
        fmt.Printf("Ciphertext (base64): %s\n", ciphertext)

        decryptedCiphertext, err := primitive.Decrypt(ciphertext, associatedData)
        if err != nil {
            log.Fatal(err)
        }

        fmt.Printf("Decrypted ciphertext: %s\n", decryptedCiphertext)
    }
    ```
6. Paste the code from the step above in your `test.go` file.
7. Replace `<region>` with the region where your key is located and save your changes.
8. Run your code:
    ```bash
    go run test.go
    ```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
